Cache Blocking Homework
Cray Performance Symposium
July 2010

Description
-----------
As microprocessors gain more cores, and their memory hierarchies become more
complicated, those codes that take clever advantage of the cache structures
better differentiate themselves in terms of their sustained performance. Cache
blocking is an important loop transformation technique that can improve a
code's use of various levels of cache. Modern compilers, especially the Cray
compiler, are able to automatically block for cache. However, the compiler must
often resort to heuristics that result in suboptimal code. Programmers and
analysts can either help the compiler through the use of directives, or
manually block loop nests to improve performance even more.

Exercises
---------
Included in this package are three sample codes, each with blockable loop
nests.

* stencil1: A 19-point (or 18-point, depending on how you count) sixth-order
            stencil

* stencil2: Also a 19-point stencil, but with variable coefficients.
            Contributed by Tricia Balle

* tensor: A tensor product, contracting two rank-four tensors along different
          dimensions

Instructions
------------
Each exercise contains a timed loop nest that can be blocked to reduce its
execution time. Timing is done using Dick Sandness's high-resolution timer
functions. The blockable nests are marked with the comments

  ! BEGIN CACHE BLOCKING
    ...
  ! END CACHE BLOCKING

Each exercise times its blockable loop, and checks correctness of the result.
Please make no code modifications outside of the BEGIN CACHE BLOCKING ... END
CACHE BLOCKING region, in order to preserve the correctness of the checks.
Within this CACHE BLOCKING region, anything goes, as long as it preserves
correctness and total flop count, and falls within the spirit of the benchmark.

The included Makefile's default target will build all three tests. The Makefile
assumes that PrgEnv-cray is loaded.

Submitting Results
------------------
Please email your modified code to Steve (whalen@cray.com), and cc Jef
(jef@cray.com), by Friday, August 13, 2010. Steve will evaluate each submission
against the "asis" code by compiling both with CCE, using default flags, and
running them on MC12 processors. The winner's submission will be shared with
all submitters; other entries will be kept confidential.
